’m blaming ducky for this. she came up with an idea for a game thread, that involves writing scenes from the middle of book. a scene can be pages long, however. it seemed that something shorter might be just the thing.

in this exercise, the idea is to write a paragraph that would be a random passage from a story. an effective paragraph is one that has unity (it isn’t a hodgepodge of things), focus (everything in the paragraph stacks up to the whatever-it-is the paragraph is about), and coherence (the content follows smoothly). for this exercise, the paragraph should be quick to read--say, not be more than 100 words long.

a paragraph needn’t be several sentences long, but might be only a sentence or two, or a single line of dialogue.

or it could be a snippet of dialogue with narration:

she made an attempt to straighten her tawny hair. her voice quavered with emotion. “you must be a very lonely man, judge seagrave.” then she turned a gaze on him that might have ignited a rain-sodden haystack. “and i’m a lonely woman.”

it might be merely descriptive:

lines of weeds criss-crossed the cracked parking lot of the seashell motor courts. the flaking paint on the buildings had chalked to a pastel pink on walls covered with graffiti. many of the windows had been smashed out. where the sign had been, atop rusting steel posts, only the metal outline of a seashell remained.

it might have action but no dialogue:

it was ms. fitzhugh. she was walking fast. a strange expression crossed the faces of the students as they glanced toward the door and saw the principal go straight into the boys’ restroom. the footsteps stopped. there was a deep, throaty sound difficult to describe. then came an eruption of shrill screaming and a rapid sound of heels. moments later, ms. fitzhugh emerged, her eyes wild. screaming, she skidded in the hall and headed toward the office.

it might be expository:

above ground was the medieval settlement of skaar’s outpost, originally a fort to guard the cave entrance. its inception as a town had been in the lodging and supply needs of explorers there to attempt the subterranean labyrinth when it had opened as a commercial venture. with the caverns’ flooding and subsequent closure, however, skaar’s outpost had declined into an agricultural community miles from any trade routes.

these are merely examples. have fun! 
